4.7.0 Release Notes
-------------------

 o Added in memory caching of init file search results for substantial
   acceleration in some application environments (like MapServer). 

 o Regenerated nad/epsg init file with EPSG 7.1 database, including new
   support for Google Mercator (EPSG:3857).

 o Various thread safety improvements, including preliminary support for
   a mutex lock around some operations, like grid loading.


4.6.1 Release Notes
-------------------

 o Upgraded to EPSG 6.17 version for nad/epsg.  Also corrected the precision
   problem introduced in the last version.

 o Added logic for tmerc projection to fail rather than return crazy results
   if more than 90 degrees away from the central meridian (#5).  This change
   may only be temporary till a more comprehensive solution is found.

 o Fixed handling of extra text in cs2cs.  

 o Renamed INSTALL to INSTALL.TXT.
 
 o The eqc projection has been generalized to include a latitude of origin.

 o Added the glabsgm (Gauss Laborde / Sphere Geometric Mean) projection,
   and gstmerc variation.
 
 o nad/IGNF init catalogue created.

 o added the ntf_r93.gsb datum shift file.

 o Add /Op in nmake.opt compile options to avoid VC7 optimization bug (#12)

 o Fix testvarious test script so it works properly when grid files available
 

 
4.6.0 Release Notes
-------------------

 o MAJOR: Rework pj_transform() to avoid applying ellipsoid to ellipsoid
   transformations as a datum shift when no datum info is available.

 o Avoid applying "change of ellipsoid" during datum shifting based on
   ellipsoids getting changed to spheres for spherical projections.

 o Upgrade to EPSG 6.13
 
 o Added "900913" "Google Mercator" code in nad/esri.extra.

 o Avoid some static variable based multi-threading problems. 

 o Improve error recovery if ctable style datum shift grid fails to load.

 o Support drive letters properly in PROJ_LIB paths for win32.
 
 o Fix occasional problem with DMS parsing. 

 o Removed non-functional mpoly projection.

 o add lonlat, and latlon as aliases for longlat. 

   
4.5.0 Release Notes
-------------------

 o Microsoft Visual Studio 8 compatibility changes. 
 
 o Upgraded to EPSG 6.11.1 database. 

 o Several bug fixes to pj_transform() to handle transient errors properly.

 o Fix Krovak projection (include +czech flag)

 o Added Roussilhe Stereographic projection from libproj4 (proj=rouss).

 o Added experimental +lon_wrap flag for alternate pj_transform() longitude
   wrapping behavior on output.


4.4.9 Release Notes
-------------------

 o Win32 build uses proj.dll by default now. 

 o Added accessor functions for the datums, ellps, prime_meridians, units and
   main projection definition lists so they can be used on windows where 
   data objects exported from the DLL don't work easily.

 o Added JNI (Java Native Interface) support within the jniwrap directory, 
   and some supporting entry points directly in the proj dll/so.   See
   --with-jni configure switch, and jniwrap/README. 

 o Added the proj=stereoa and proj=geos projections, incorporated from
   Gerald's libproj4.

 o A few other bug fixes.


4.4.8 Release Notes
-------------------

 o Updated epsg file to EPSG 6.5, added other.extra pseudo-EPSG WMS definitions

 o Made significant fixes to prime meridian support. 
 
 o Substantially change pj_datum_transform(), so it and pj_transform() will
   work between coordinate systems with different ellipsoids but no datum
   shift information (assume +towgs84=0,0,0). 

 o Added pj_get_release() function.

 o Ensure pj_transform() will try to transform all points in provided list if 
   even some might transform properly.  

 o Improved the accuracy of Geocentric_To_Geodetic() via an iterative
   solution.  

 o Various other bug fixes. 


4.4.7 Release Notes
-------------------

 o Added NTv2 (.gsb) grid shift file support.  

 o Modified datum shift support so that data file data is only loaded if
   needed.  Also added 'null' grid as a fallback option, and support for 
   making grids optional (prefix with '@' in +nadgrids). 

 o Regenerated nad/epsg file with towgs84 parameters for non-greenwich prime 
   meridians.

 o Updated nad/esri file with better generated form from Paul Ramsey.

 o Various bug fixes. 


4.4.6 Release Notes
-------------------

 o Incorporated new lcca (Lambert Conformal Conic Alternate) projection from
   Gerald.

 o Updated 'espg' translation file for EPSG 6.2.2 with better support for
   prime meridians. 

 o Added Prime Meridians via +pm command switch to cs2cs (and pj_transform).

 o Fixed bug with 7 parameter transforms. 

 o Added 'esri' pseudo-epsg coordinate system file. 

 o Cleanup so that PROJ.4 compiles clean as C++ code.

 o Added pj_get_def() to expand definitions of stuff like +init clauses.

 o Added a Krovak implementation (proj=krov).  Note this may change again
   in the next release. 
